---
title: "2.configuration"
date: 2024-01-05T22:23:34+09:00
draft: false
categories: ["edx-linux"]
tags: ["edx", "Linux", "Kernel"]
---

## Printing on Linux

printing itself requires software that converts information from application you are using to a language your printer can understand.  

The Linux standard for printing software is the Common UNIX Printing System (`CUPS`)

Modern Linux desktop systems make installing and administering printers simple and intuitive.  
Nevertheless, it is instructive to understand the underpinnings of how it is done in Linux.   


## CUPS Overview

`CUPS` interprets page descriptions produced by your application (put a paragraph here, draw a line there, and so forth) and then sends the information to the printer. it acts as a print server for both local and network printers.

Printers manufactured by different companies may use thire own particular print lnagues and formats. CUPS uses a modular printing system that accommodates a wide variety printers and also processes various data formats. 

## Configuration Files

cupsd.conf and printers.conf

all other CUPS-related configuration files are stored under the `/etc/cups`

cupsd.conf is where most system-wide settings are located. it does not contain any printer-specific details.  
most of the settings available in this file relate to network security  

printers.conf is where you will find the printer-specific settings. 


## Job Files

`/var/spool/cups` commonly known as print queues  

## Log Files

`/var/log/cups/` directory contains logfile that is used by scheduler to record activities that have taken place.  

## Filters, Printer Drivers, and Backends

CUPS uses filters to convert job file formats to printable formats. `Printer drivers` contain descriptions for currently connected / configured printers,  
and are usually store under /etc/cups/ppd/.  

The print data is then sent to the printer through a filter, and via `backend` that helps to locate devices connected to the system.


