---
title: "4.sed and Awk"
date: 2023-12-25T14:39:39+09:00
draft: false
categories: ["edx-linux"]
tags: ["edx", "Linux", "Kernel"]
---

## introduction to sed and awk

many Linux users and administrators will write scripts using comprehensive scripting languages such as Python and perl,  
rather than use `sed` and `awk`. However, the utilitites that are described here are much lighter;i.e. they use fewer system resources,  
and execute faster.

## sed

abbreviation for stream editor.

data from an input source/file (or stream) is taken and moved to a working space.  
the entire list of operations/modifications is applied over the data in the working space and  
the final contents are moved to the standard output space(or stream)

## sed command syntax

| command                               | usage                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| sed -e command <filename>             | specify editing commands at the command line, process input from ad file, and put the output on standard out |
| sed -f scriptfile <filename>          | specify a script file containing `sed` commands, operate on file, and put output on standard out             |
| echo "I hate you" \| sed s/hate/love/ | usd sed to filter standard input, putting output on standard out                                             |

the - e option allows you to specify multiple editing commands simultaneously at the command line.

## sed basic operations

sed 1,3s/parttern/replace_string/g file

- substitute all string occurrences in a range of lines

sed -i s/pattern/replace_string/g file

- save changes for string substitution in the same file

```bash
sed -e 's/01/JAN/' \
    -e 's/02/FEB/' \ ....
```

can change delimiter.

```bash
sed s:/sbin/nologin:/bin/bash:g /etc/passwd
```

## awk

awk is used to extract and then print specific contents of a file and is often used to construct reports.

- it is a powerful utility and interpreted programming language.
- it is used to manipulate data files, and for retrieving and processing text.
- it works well with fields (containing a single piece of data, essentially a column) and records (a collection of fields, essentially a line in a file)

```bash
head - 10 /etc/passwd

awk -F: '{print "name: "$1 shell: " $7}' /etc/passwd | head -10
```

the input file is read on line at a time, and, for each line, awk matches the given pattern in the given order and performs the requested action.
the =F option allows you to specify a particulaar field separator characotr.
