---
title: "2-3.linux Philosophy"
date: 2022-12-25T14:37:33+09:00
draft: false
categories: ["edx-linux"]
tags: ["edx", "Linux", "Kernel"]
---

## Linux Philosophy Overview

Linux is constantly enhanced and maintained by a _network of developers_ from all over the world collaborating
over the internet, with Linus Torvalds at the head.

## Linux Philosophy

Linux borrows heavily from the well-established UNIX operating system. it was written to be a free and open source system to be used in place of UNIX,  
which at the time was designed for computers much more powerful than PCs and was quite expensive.

Linux is a fully multitasking, multiuser operating system, with built-in networking and service processes known as deamons in the UNIX world.

**NOTE: Linux was inspired by UNIX, but it is not UNIX.**

## How Linux Is Built

collaborating is power of Linux!

2-3 month is period to need to release new version of Linux

## More About Linux Community

users and vendors who use many different forums to connect with one another.

- Internet Relay Chat (IRC) software
- Online communities and discussion boards including Linux User Gorups
- Many collaborative projects hosted on services such as GitHub and GitLab
- Newsgroups and mailing lists, including the Linux Kernel Mailing List
- Community events, e.g. Hackathons, Install Fests, Open Source Summits and Embedded Linux Conferences.

linux.com is hosted by The Linux Foundation and serves over one million unique visitors every month.
